content/home/resources.md, before:

---
widget: blank
headless: true
design:
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns: '1'

title: "Resources"
weight: 30
---

-   Videos

    -   Fundamentals 009 (Linear Regression with `Learner`) [walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYvyo-La3zBOvTxiOhy4y6l65TxcUtCuS)

    -   [Lab 3 walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYvyo-La3zBN8qoyCf3l0RRaopUa0KXPG)

-   Our book: [Deep Learning for Coders](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Coders-fastai-PyTorch/dp/1492045527/)

    -   [Source notebooks](https://github.com/fastai/fastbook), [Arnold's cleaned notebooks](https://github.com/kcarnold/fastbook/tree/master/clean). Suggestion: use [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/) (or Colab) when reading the notebooks, rather than GitHub.

    -   fast.ai course [lesson videos](https://course.fast.ai/videos/)

-   Review the end-of-chapter questions at [aiquizzes](https://aiquizzes.com/)

-   Connect with a broader AI community at <https://twimlai.com/community/>

-   Helpful references

    -   git

        -   [GitHub's Git Handbook](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/)

    -   Jupyter Notebook

        -   [Appendix](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/app_jupyter.ipynb) from our book
        -   [tips and tricks](https://github.com/NirantK/best-of-jupyter)

    -   Google Colab ([intro](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb), [overview](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/basic_features_overview.ipynb)). Tips:

        -   Press Ctrl-Shift-P to open the Command Palette. Lots of useful stuff there; try the "scratch code cell".
        -   Click the down arrow next to the RAM/Disk meter in the toolbar (where it used to say "Connect") and select "show executed code history"

### Keeping up with AI

#### Tech

-   [TWIML](https://twimlai.com/) -- podcast, blog
-   [Papers With Code](https://paperswithcode.com/) (sign up for the newsletter)
-   [Two Minute Papers](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg) YouTube channel
-   [Morning Paper](https://blog.acolyer.org/) blog
-   [Arxiv-Sanity](http://www.arxiv-sanity.com/) (but still insane)
-   [distill.pub](https://distill.pub/)
-   [Harvard Data Science Review](https://hdsr.mitpress.mit.edu/)

#### Ethics / Society

-   Fast.AI [Data Ethics course](https://ethics.fast.ai/)
-   Montreal AI
-   AI Now Institute
-   Data and Society
-   [The Oxford Handbook of Ethics of AI](https://global.oup.com/academic/product/the-oxford-handbook-of-ethics-of-ai-9780190067397?cc=ca&lang=en&#)
-   [AlgorithmWatch](https://algorithmwatch.org/en/)
-   [Harvard BKC](https://twitter.com/BKCHarvard)
-   ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency ([FAccT](https://facctconference.org/))

### Videos / Podcasts / ... that others have liked

-   "Advice on getting started in deep learning" by Andrew Ng
-   3Blue1Brown Neural Network Videos

### Our General Reflection Questions

As we look at several different technologies throughout this semester, we will ask some of the same questions about each of them. Here's the list so far. You don't need to specifically engage them for this activity, but they may be helpful for prompting your thinking:

-   How does it work?

-   What resources does it need? What resources does it produce?

-   What value does it produce for an organization that uses it?

-   Besides its primary use, what are other consequences (within and outside the organization) of its deployment? Think of people affected, resources consumed or produced, value generated, etc.

-   What are comparable or alternative non-AI products / technologies? What are real-world analogies for this technology (in terms of purpose or function)?

-   What ways of looking at or thinking about people does it emphasize? De-emphasize?

-   What are its limitations? Which limitations are most fundamental?

Commit message:

Add Colab fix in Resources.

content/home/resources.md, after:

---
widget: blank
headless: true
design:
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns: '1'

title: "Resources"
weight: 30
---

**To fix fastai on Google Colab**, add a cell with the following

`!pip install -U fastbook torchtext==0.8.1`

-   Videos

    -   Fundamentals 009 (Linear Regression with `Learner`) [walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYvyo-La3zBOvTxiOhy4y6l65TxcUtCuS)

    -   [Lab 3 walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYvyo-La3zBN8qoyCf3l0RRaopUa0KXPG)

-   Our book: [Deep Learning for Coders](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Coders-fastai-PyTorch/dp/1492045527/)

    -   [Source notebooks](https://github.com/fastai/fastbook), [Arnold's cleaned notebooks](https://github.com/kcarnold/fastbook/tree/master/clean). Suggestion: use [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/) (or Colab) when reading the notebooks, rather than GitHub.

    -   fast.ai course [lesson videos](https://course.fast.ai/videos/)

-   Review the end-of-chapter questions at [aiquizzes](https://aiquizzes.com/)

-   Connect with a broader AI community at <https://twimlai.com/community/>

-   Helpful references

    -   git

        -   [GitHub's Git Handbook](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/)

    -   Jupyter Notebook

        -   [Appendix](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/app_jupyter.ipynb) from our book
        -   [tips and tricks](https://github.com/NirantK/best-of-jupyter)

    -   Google Colab ([intro](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb), [overview](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/basic_features_overview.ipynb)). Tips:

        -   Press Ctrl-Shift-P to open the Command Palette. Lots of useful stuff there; try the "scratch code cell".
        -   Click the down arrow next to the RAM/Disk meter in the toolbar (where it used to say "Connect") and select "show executed code history"

### Keeping up with AI

#### Tech

-   [TWIML](https://twimlai.com/) -- podcast, blog
-   [Papers With Code](https://paperswithcode.com/) (sign up for the newsletter)
-   [Two Minute Papers](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg) YouTube channel
-   [Morning Paper](https://blog.acolyer.org/) blog
-   [Arxiv-Sanity](http://www.arxiv-sanity.com/) (but still insane)
-   [distill.pub](https://distill.pub/)
-   [Harvard Data Science Review](https://hdsr.mitpress.mit.edu/)

#### Ethics / Society

-   Fast.AI [Data Ethics course](https://ethics.fast.ai/)
-   Montreal AI
-   AI Now Institute
-   Data and Society
-   [The Oxford Handbook of Ethics of AI](https://global.oup.com/academic/product/the-oxford-handbook-of-ethics-of-ai-9780190067397?cc=ca&lang=en&#)
-   [AlgorithmWatch](https://algorithmwatch.org/en/)
-   [Harvard BKC](https://twitter.com/BKCHarvard)
-   ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency ([FAccT](https://facctconference.org/))

### Videos / Podcasts / ... that others have liked

-   "Advice on getting started in deep learning" by Andrew Ng
-   3Blue1Brown Neural Network Videos

### Our General Reflection Questions

As we look at several different technologies throughout this semester, we will ask some of the same questions about each of them. Here's the list so far. You don't need to specifically engage them for this activity, but they may be helpful for prompting your thinking:

-   How does it work?

-   What resources does it need? What resources does it produce?

-   What value does it produce for an organization that uses it?

-   Besides its primary use, what are other consequences (within and outside the organization) of its deployment? Think of people affected, resources consumed or produced, value generated, etc.

-   What are comparable or alternative non-AI products / technologies? What are real-world analogies for this technology (in terms of purpose or function)?

-   What ways of looking at or thinking about people does it emphasize? De-emphasize?

-   What are its limitations? Which limitations are most fundamental?
