content/home/schedule.markdown, before:

---
widget: blank
headless: true
design:
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns: '1'

title: "Schedule"
weight: 5
---




## Schedule







<table class="daily-calendar" border=1 width=95%>
<colgroup>
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
</colgroup>
<thead><tr>
<th>Mon</th>
<th>Tue</th>
<th>Wed</th>
<th>Thu</th>
<th>Fri</th>
</tr></thead><tbody><tr>
<!--  0 > -Inf -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/1<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/2<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/3<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Kickoff, <a href="https://teachablemachine.withgoogle.com/train/image">Teachable Machine</a>, Logistics</p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> Syllabus</p>

<p><strong>Resources</strong> <a href="/slides/w1d1/w1d1-intro.html">Day 1 slides</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/4<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Quiz</strong> Python review</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/5<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 0: Warm-up</p>

<p><strong>Notes</strong> 
<details><summary>Lab Logistics</summary></p>

<ul>
<li>Come to Maroon lab. Fill in computers as available, others stand around the sides of
the room (at safe distance) for overview (then move to Gold lab)</li>
<li>People at Maroon lab computers: <strong>reboot into Linux</strong></li>
</ul>

<p></details></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  1 > 0 -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/8<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 1 (Chapter 1)</p>

<p><strong>Prep</strong> </p>

<ul>
<li>read <a href="https://github.com/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/01_intro.ipynb">DL4C chapter 1</a></li>
<li>Watch <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=1">Lesson 1 Video</a></li>
<li>Complete reading quiz</li>
</ul>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/9<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/10<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Guest lecture: KVL</p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> Reflection 1</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/11<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Quiz</strong> Quiz 2</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/12<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Guest lecture: KVL</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  2 > 1 -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/15<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 1 recap (<a href="/slides/w2d1/w2d1-debrief.html">slides</a>, <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/kcarnold/cs344/blob/main/src/Data_Loading_Code.ipynb">code</a>)</p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/02_production.ipynb">DL4C chapter 2</a>
  <em>note: ignore the implementation of <code>class DataLoaders</code>.</em></p>

<p><strong>Quiz</strong> Reading Quiz 2</p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=2">Lesson 2 Video</a></p>

<p><strong>Assigned</strong> <a href="/activities/homework-1">Homework 1</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/16<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/17<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Review, Intro to AI Ethics <a href="/slides/w2d2/w2d2-ethics.html">slides</a></p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> </p>

<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/03_ethics.ipynb">DL4C chapter 3</a> until &ldquo;Topics in Data Ethics&rdquo;</li>
<li>the <strong>table of contents</strong> of the <a href="https://montrealethics.ai/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/State-of-AI-Ethics-Report-January-2021.pdf">January 2021 Montreal AI Ethics Report</a></li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Due</strong> Discussion post about a topic that caught your eye (before class)</p>

<p>Reflection 2</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/18<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/19<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 1 extension, homework work</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  3 > 2 -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/22<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Conceptual Review <a href="/slides/w3d1/w3d1-concepts.html">Slides</a></p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> Finish reading <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/03_ethics.ipynb">DL4C chapter 3</a>; <strong>Reading Quiz</strong></p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> <a href="/activities/homework-1">Homework 1</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/23<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/24<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Conceptual and Practical Review</p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> Reflection 3</p>

<p><strong>Discussion</strong> Reply in last week&#39;s Discussion</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/25<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/26<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Exploring Tensors</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  4 > 3 -->
</tr><tr>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/1<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Modeling Basics</p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/04_mnist_basics.ipynb">DL4C chapter 4</a> until &ldquo;MNIST Loss Function&rdquo; <strong>Reading Quiz</strong></p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=3">Lesson 3 video</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/2<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/3<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Note</strong> Reflection delayed till next week</p>

<p>Add and upvote <a href="https://calvincollege.sharepoint.com/sites/Section_77915/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B11c65f0d-7020-4c67-a7b2-93a5521628a6%7D&amp;action=edit&amp;wd=target%28_Collaboration%20Space%2FWeekly%20Notes.one%7Cf65e590f-924e-461a-ad2d-681cc376dd7c%2FApplication%20Areas%7C334a318a-1626-4e37-91fd-6bf983ef82d4%2F%29&amp;wdorigin=703">application areas</a></p>

<p><strong>Topic</strong> Modeling Basics</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/4<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Note</strong> 
Advising Day</p>

<p><strong>Quiz</strong> Technical Check-in</p>

<p><strong>Released</strong> <a href="https://classroom.github.com/a/t9EfXnfw">Portfolio Repos</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/5<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Read</strong> The rest of chapter 4</p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> The first hour of the <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=4">Lesson 4 video</a></p>

<p><strong>Topic</strong> <a href="/activities/lab-2">Lab 2: Pull the Chain</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  5 > 4 -->
</tr><tr>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/8<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Read</strong> ch4 starting at &ldquo;MNIST loss function&rdquo;, chapter 5 until &ldquo;Model Interpretation&rdquo;</p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> The rest of the <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=4">Lesson 4 video</a> (masks postlude optional but interesting)</p>

<p><strong>Continue</strong> <a href="/activities/lab-2">Lab 2: Pull the Chain</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/9<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/10<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Chapter 5 review</p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> <a href="/activities/reflection-4">Reflection 4</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/11<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/12<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
</tr></tbody></table>


<style>
.daily-calendar ul {
  padding-left: 1rem;
}

.daily-calendar .past td > div {
  overflow: auto;
  max-height: 75px;
}

.daily-calendar td {
    padding: 0;
}

.daily-calendar td > div {
  padding: 5px;
}
</style>







Overall, we will go through the first half of the Deep Learning for Coders book
at the pace that works for us, then see where we are. Then we will plan together
what remaining topics to discuss, such as:

* language processing (my specific area of interest), especially Transformers
* reinforcement learning
* unsupervised learning
* others as we identify them

Commit message:

Add note about collapsed days

content/home/schedule.markdown, after:

---
widget: blank
headless: true
design:
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns: '1'

title: "Schedule"
weight: 5
---



Note that earlier weeks are collapsed for space reasons but each day will scroll.







<table class="daily-calendar" border=1 width=95%>
<colgroup>
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
<col width = "10%">
</colgroup>
<thead><tr>
<th>Mon</th>
<th>Tue</th>
<th>Wed</th>
<th>Thu</th>
<th>Fri</th>
</tr></thead><tbody><tr>
<!--  0 > -Inf -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/1<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/2<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/3<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Kickoff, <a href="https://teachablemachine.withgoogle.com/train/image">Teachable Machine</a>, Logistics</p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> Syllabus</p>

<p><strong>Resources</strong> <a href="/slides/w1d1/w1d1-intro.html">Day 1 slides</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/4<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Quiz</strong> Python review</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/5<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 0: Warm-up</p>

<p><strong>Notes</strong> 
<details><summary>Lab Logistics</summary></p>

<ul>
<li>Come to Maroon lab. Fill in computers as available, others stand around the sides of
the room (at safe distance) for overview (then move to Gold lab)</li>
<li>People at Maroon lab computers: <strong>reboot into Linux</strong></li>
</ul>

<p></details></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  1 > 0 -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/8<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 1 (Chapter 1)</p>

<p><strong>Prep</strong> </p>

<ul>
<li>read <a href="https://github.com/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/01_intro.ipynb">DL4C chapter 1</a></li>
<li>Watch <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=1">Lesson 1 Video</a></li>
<li>Complete reading quiz</li>
</ul>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/9<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/10<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Guest lecture: KVL</p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> Reflection 1</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/11<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Quiz</strong> Quiz 2</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/12<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Guest lecture: KVL</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  2 > 1 -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/15<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 1 recap (<a href="/slides/w2d1/w2d1-debrief.html">slides</a>, <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/kcarnold/cs344/blob/main/src/Data_Loading_Code.ipynb">code</a>)</p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/02_production.ipynb">DL4C chapter 2</a>
  <em>note: ignore the implementation of <code>class DataLoaders</code>.</em></p>

<p><strong>Quiz</strong> Reading Quiz 2</p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=2">Lesson 2 Video</a></p>

<p><strong>Assigned</strong> <a href="/activities/homework-1">Homework 1</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/16<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/17<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Review, Intro to AI Ethics <a href="/slides/w2d2/w2d2-ethics.html">slides</a></p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> </p>

<ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/03_ethics.ipynb">DL4C chapter 3</a> until &ldquo;Topics in Data Ethics&rdquo;</li>
<li>the <strong>table of contents</strong> of the <a href="https://montrealethics.ai/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/State-of-AI-Ethics-Report-January-2021.pdf">January 2021 Montreal AI Ethics Report</a></li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Due</strong> Discussion post about a topic that caught your eye (before class)</p>

<p>Reflection 2</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/18<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/19<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab 1 extension, homework work</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  3 > 2 -->
</tr><tr class="past">
<td class = "even"><div>2/22<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Conceptual Review <a href="/slides/w3d1/w3d1-concepts.html">Slides</a></p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> Finish reading <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/03_ethics.ipynb">DL4C chapter 3</a>; <strong>Reading Quiz</strong></p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> <a href="/activities/homework-1">Homework 1</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/23<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/24<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Conceptual and Practical Review</p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> Reflection 3</p>

<p><strong>Discussion</strong> Reply in last week&#39;s Discussion</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/25<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "even"><div>2/26<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Exploring Tensors</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  4 > 3 -->
</tr><tr>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/1<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Modeling Basics</p>

<p><strong>Read</strong> <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/04_mnist_basics.ipynb">DL4C chapter 4</a> until &ldquo;MNIST Loss Function&rdquo; <strong>Reading Quiz</strong></p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=3">Lesson 3 video</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/2<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/3<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Note</strong> Reflection delayed till next week</p>

<p>Add and upvote <a href="https://calvincollege.sharepoint.com/sites/Section_77915/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B11c65f0d-7020-4c67-a7b2-93a5521628a6%7D&amp;action=edit&amp;wd=target%28_Collaboration%20Space%2FWeekly%20Notes.one%7Cf65e590f-924e-461a-ad2d-681cc376dd7c%2FApplication%20Areas%7C334a318a-1626-4e37-91fd-6bf983ef82d4%2F%29&amp;wdorigin=703">application areas</a></p>

<p><strong>Topic</strong> Modeling Basics</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/4<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Note</strong> 
Advising Day</p>

<p><strong>Quiz</strong> Technical Check-in</p>

<p><strong>Released</strong> <a href="https://classroom.github.com/a/t9EfXnfw">Portfolio Repos</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/5<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Read</strong> The rest of chapter 4</p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> The first hour of the <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=4">Lesson 4 video</a></p>

<p><strong>Topic</strong> <a href="/activities/lab-2">Lab 2: Pull the Chain</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<!--  5 > 4 -->
</tr><tr>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/8<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Read</strong> ch4 starting at &ldquo;MNIST loss function&rdquo;, chapter 5 until &ldquo;Model Interpretation&rdquo;</p>

<p><strong>Watch</strong> The rest of the <a href="https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=4">Lesson 4 video</a> (masks postlude optional but interesting)</p>

<p><strong>Continue</strong> <a href="/activities/lab-2">Lab 2: Pull the Chain</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/9<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/10<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Chapter 5 review</p>

<p><strong>Due</strong> <a href="/activities/reflection-4">Reflection 4</a></p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/11<br><span class = "html"></span><br><br></div></td>
<td class = "odd"><div>3/12<br><span class = "html"><p><strong>Topic</strong> Lab</p>
</span><br><br></div></td>
</tr></tbody></table>


<style>
.daily-calendar ul {
  padding-left: 1rem;
}

.daily-calendar .past td > div {
  overflow: auto;
  max-height: 75px;
}

.daily-calendar td {
    padding: 0;
}

.daily-calendar td > div {
  padding: 5px;
}
</style>







Overall, we will go through the first half of the Deep Learning for Coders book
at the pace that works for us, then see where we are. Then we will plan together
what remaining topics to discuss, such as:

* language processing (my specific area of interest), especially Transformers
* reinforcement learning
* unsupervised learning
* others as we identify them
