content/exams.md, before:

---
title: "Exams by Us"
---

In this class, we are going to try writing our own exams.

Why? Once you leave school, you won't have instructors. But you won't stop learning. So you're going to need to take ownership of your own learning.

Since it's easy to *feel* like you've learned something without actually learning it, some ways of assessing your learning are important. One way to do this is to try exercises, like you'll be doing in your projects. Another way is to test yourself. So that's what we'll try now.

[GitHub Copilot adds, based on my outline:] Another benefit of writing your own exams is that you'll get to practice learning in community. You'll get to see how your classmates are learning, and you'll get to help them learn. And you'll get to see how you learn, and how you can help yourself learn.

## Stage 1: Writing Questions

In this stage, each student will write questions. Expectations:

- Each student writes 3 questions.
- Each question is for a different unit.
- Each question should include an answer key.
- One question should be multiple-choice. One question should be short-answer. The third question can be in a format of your choice (e.g. fill-in-the-blank, true-false, multiple-choice, short-answer, etc.).

### Multiple Choice

A multiple-choice question should have one clearly correct answer, and three relevant detractors. The question should be clear, and the distractors should be relevant. The distractors should not be so similar that they could be confused with the correct answer.

### Short Answer

Short answer questions might start with words like "Explain", "Compare", "Describe", "Define", "Weigh the pros and cons of", etc. There should be a single answer that is clearly correct.

### Difficulty

You should try to vary the difficulty of your questions. As a rough guide, aim for each question to be at a different level of Bloom's Taxonomy. Concentrate on the first 4 levels:

- Remembering (words like "define", "list", "name")
- Understanding (words like "give an example", "explain", "describe", "identify")
- Applying (words like "implement", "apply", "solve")
- Analyzing (words like "analyze", "distinguish", "contrast")

## Stage 2: Reviewing Questions

Each student should contribute two revisions to questions written by other students. Revisions can be improvements to the clarity of the question (it should be clear what the question is asking), or improvements to the answer key (it should be clear what the correct answer is, and why it's correct).

## Stage 3: Taking the Exam

Individually: Each student should take a stratified random sample of questions. The sample should include one question from each unit, and one question from each type (multiple-choice, short-answer, etc.).

We will also collaboratively test ChatGPT. Each student will give ChatGPT a question, then reflect on whether the answer is correct.

We will also reflect on our experience with this first exam and how we can improve it for the next one.

## Logistics

We'll do this all in a GitHub repo: https://github.com/kcarnold/cs344-exam-23sp

- Stage 1:
  - Make a directory (folder) for each question, named like `u01-mc-history`
    - `u` means "unit"
    - `01` means "unit 1" (two digits, so they sort correctly)
    - `mc` means "multiple choice". Other types include `sa` (short answer), `tf` (true/false), or other.
  - In each directory, make a `README.md` file that contains the question.
  - In each directory, make an `answer.md` file that contains the answer, and an explanation of why the answer is correct.
- Stage 2:  
	- Each student picks a stratified random set of questions  


## References

- https://li.wsu.edu/documents/2018/01/student-generated-test-questions.pdf/  
- https://www.researchgate.net/publication/279747608_Asking_the_Right_Questions_Using_Student-Written_Exams_as_an_Innovative_Approach_to_Learning_and_Evaluation  
- [“Exams by You”: Having Students Write and Complete Their Own Exams During the COVID-19 Pandemic - PMC](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9082101/)

Commit message:

Revisions from Vic's suggestions yesterdya

content/exams.md, after:

---
title: "Exams by Us"
---

In this class, we are going to try writing our own exams.

Why? Once you leave school, you won't have instructors. But you won't stop learning. So you're going to need to take ownership of your own learning.

Since it's easy to *feel* like you've learned something without actually learning it, some ways of assessing your learning are important. One way to do this is to try exercises, like you'll be doing in your projects. Another way is to test yourself. So that's what we'll try now.

[GitHub Copilot adds, based on my outline:] Another benefit of writing your own exams is that you'll get to practice learning in community. You'll get to see how your classmates are learning, and you'll get to help them learn. And you'll get to see how you learn, and how you can help yourself learn.

## Stage 1: Writing Questions

In this stage, each student will write questions. Expectations:

- Each student writes 3 questions.
- Each question is for a different unit.
- Each question should include an answer key.
- One question should be multiple-choice. One question should be short-answer. The third question can be in a format of your choice (e.g. fill-in-the-blank, true-false, multiple-choice, short-answer, etc.).

### Multiple Choice

A multiple-choice question should have one clearly correct answer, and three relevant detractors. The question should be clear, and the distractors should be relevant. The distractors should not be so similar that they could be confused with the correct answer.

### Short Answer

Short answer questions might start with words like "Explain", "Compare", "Describe", "Define", "Weigh the pros and cons of", etc. There should be a single answer that is clearly correct.

### Difficulty

You should try to vary the difficulty of your questions. As a rough guide, aim for each question to be at a different level of Bloom's Taxonomy. Concentrate on the first 4 levels:

- Remembering (words like "define", "list", "name")
- Understanding (words like "give an example", "explain", "describe", "identify")
- Applying (words like "implement", "apply", "solve")
- Analyzing (words like "analyze", "distinguish", "contrast")

## Stage 2: Reviewing Questions

Each student should contribute two revisions to questions written by other students. Revisions can be improvements to the clarity of the question (it should be clear what the question is asking), or improvements to the answer key (it should be clear what the correct answer is, and why it's correct).

## Stage 3: Taking the Exam

Individually: Each student will get a stratified random sample of questions. The sample should include one question from each unit, and one question from each type (multiple-choice, short-answer, etc.).

We will also collaboratively test ChatGPT. Each student will give ChatGPT a question, then reflect on whether the answer is correct.

We will also reflect on our experience with this first exam and how we can improve it for the next one.

## Logistics

We'll do this all in a GitHub repo: https://github.com/kcarnold/cs344-exam-23sp

- Stage 1:
  - Make a directory (folder) for each question, named like `u01-mc-history`
    - `u` means "unit"
    - `01` means "unit 1" (two digits, so they sort correctly)
    - `mc` means "multiple choice". Other types include `sa` (short answer), `tf` (true/false), or other.
  - In each directory, make a `README.md` file that contains the question.
  - In each directory, make an `answer.md` file that contains the answer, and an explanation of why the answer is correct.
  - In each directory, make a `SLO.md` that contains the learning objective(s) that the question is testing. You can generally copy and paste these from the unit's Objectives section on the website.
- Stage 2: Reviewing Questions
  - Each student makes two revisions to questions written by other students.
  - Make your edits in a branch, then make a pull request to merge your branch into `main`.
- Stage 3:
  - Each student picks a stratified random set of questions  

## References

- https://li.wsu.edu/documents/2018/01/student-generated-test-questions.pdf/  
- https://www.researchgate.net/publication/279747608_Asking_the_Right_Questions_Using_Student-Written_Exams_as_an_Innovative_Approach_to_Learning_and_Evaluation  
- [“Exams by You”: Having Students Write and Complete Their Own Exams During the COVID-19 Pandemic - PMC](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9082101/)
