content/syllabus/index.md, before:

---
title: "Syllabus"
---

This is a hands-on course on AI systems using machine learning, with a particular emphasis on deep neural networks.

-   **Instructor**: Kenneth C. Arnold, Calvin University, North Hall NH298

-   **Meeting Time**: MWF 11:30-12:20, SB 354 (Gold Lab)

-   **Office/Teams Hours**: Generally Monday and Thursday afternoons; see my [Google Calendar](https://kenarnold.org/calendar.html) for details and exceptions. Or message me directly; time permitting, I'd love to chat.

## Objective

By the end of this course, you will demonstrate growth in your ability to:

- Design a machine learning system to address a given challenge.
    - Select an appropriate ML approach to solve a problem.
    - Map characteristics of the problem onto elements of the approach.
    - Identify necessary characteristics of the data required for an ML system.
- Implement machine learning systems using both high-level and low-level programming interfaces.
	- Write code to implement the forward pass of linear regression, logistic regression, and neural net extensions thereof. (compute predictions and loss)
	- Design and implement data preprocessing processes to encode data into a format appropriate for machine learning modeling.
- Critically analyze the use and misuse of AI and ML techniques in situations affecting people
- Describe the history and trajectory of artificial intelligence

## Prerequisites

Familiarity with computer science concepts at the level of CS 212 will be generally expected. Beyond that, students should come to this course with some (perhaps rusty) ability to:

-   Read and write Python code (or be willing to invest significant energy the first few weeks picking it up)
-   Think systematically, generate and test hypotheses to explain observations, and communicate that thinking precisely.
-   Manage time, individually and in small groups
-   Collaborate to solve problems

## Materials

-   We will be following the fast.ai [Practical Deep Learning for Coders](https://course.fast.ai/) course for much of this course.

    -   You should buy their book (available in the Calvin bookstore), although it's also available as Jupyter Notebooks
    -   [Videos](https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=1)
    -   their [forum](https://forums.fast.ai/c/part1-v4/46)

-   We will be using Piazza for class discussion. Many students have found that Piazza works well for getting you help fast and efficiently from classmates and myself. Rather than emailing questions to the teaching staff, I encourage you to post your questions on Piazza. Access Piazza by clicking on the link in Moodle.

-   The lab machines are configured with the software needed in Linux. The Gold lab GPUs are slightly better, so we'll generally use them but Maroon should usually work too. For times when you need or want additional computing resources, you may use [Borg](https://borg.calvin.edu/), [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/), [Paperspace](https://gradient.paperspace.com/), or other services. **The Guacamole remote access machines have older GPUs**, so see notes in the Lab 1 and 2 instructions for tips on making things run there (or just use Google Colab).

## Policies

**Grading**: The final course grade will be composed of 2 elements:

- Effort: did you do it, on time?
- Mastery: did you get it?

**Effort** points are awarded for satisfactory effort by the due date and are intended to keep you from getting behind in the course. The following types of activities count as effort points:

- **Labs**, **Homework**, and weekly **reflections** will be considered satisfactory if an attempt has been made to answer all questions by the due date. Each activity will be allocated 5 effort points. On-time submissions receive all 5 points; late turn-ins are penalized by 1 point each business day (i.e., excluding weekends).
- **Discussion Forums** will be awarded 2 effort points if an original post with intellectual substance is made by the due date. Many discussion assignments will also include one or two replies to other students, which will count for 1 effort point each. Late posts may receive half credit.
- All **Quizzes** (both preparation and review) count as 5 effort points. The actual score will be used: unlimited attempts will be allowed, so perfect scores are expected. Moodle makes it tedious to manage late quizzes, so each quiz will officially close a week late and no late quizzes will be accepted.

**Late work**: Everyone will receive 5 free effort points, i.e., you get five grace days. Please reserve these for cases of personal hardship. Exemptions per assignment will be granted in very limited circumstances. 

The *mastery* component of grading (inspired by a system used at [Grinnell College](https://osera.cs.grinnell.edu/csc151/syllabus/)) will be composed of two grades for each unit: an individual grade and a group grade. A mastery grade is awarded for a unit when a student provides evidence to demonstrate mastery of one or more of the learning outcomes for that unit.
You present this evidence to the course staff by referring to a specific assignment in your weekly reflection (described later).

> Alternatively, you may meet with the course staff (during office hours or during a lull in lab time) to earn a mastery grade. However, times to do this will be limited, so be prepared to provide written evidence.

Mastery will be graded on a four-point scale (adapted from the [EMRF rubric](http://miss-serwy.weebly.com/uploads/1/2/1/6/12161802/emrf_rubric_1.pdf) by Stutzman and Race):

- **E**: Excellent
    - Demonstrates complete understanding of the material
    - No errors; could serve as an example solution
- **M**: Meets expectations
    - Demonstrates complete understanding of the material
    - Minor errors
- **R**: Needs Revision
    - Demonstrates limited understanding of the material
    - Many minor errors or one or more major errors
- **N**: Not completed
    - Not completed to a degree where understanding is evident


**If I get an R, can I revise?**

Yes, this is expected and highly encouraged. You can submit revisions in the same way that you submit new items. When submitting a revision:

- Include in your weekly reflection a concise and specific explanation of the original error(s).
- Submit a complete, standalone solution. Do not include evidence of your past errors.

**When can I earn mastery grades?**

You may earn up to 2 mastery grades during each week of class (ending Mondays unless otherwise indicated), and up to one mastery grade for each unit in the midterm and final projects. Generally you will attempt one new mastery grade and one revised assignment from a previous week during each week.

**This sounds unusual. Will we actually be doing this??**

This grading policy is experimental and depends on student buy-in and participation. I reserve the right to change the grading policy at any point.

**Can we work in pairs?**

Lab, homework, and project activities should generally be done in pairs, though solo work is also fine. Teams of 3 can be okay too.

However, group work can only get you one of the two mastery grades for a unit.

Some weeks there will be review assignments available, which will provide you the opportunity to demonstrate individual mastery. (As a corollary, these assignments *must* be done individually, without consulting other students or aids.)

**Incompletes**: An incomplete grade (I) will only be given in unusual circumstances, and only if those circumstances have been confirmed by the Student Life office.

**Attendance** is not mandatory, but highly encouraged, both for your own learning and as one of the main ways to contribute to other students' learning. Come to class to ask the questions that you think everyone else already knows the answer to but in fact they nod in agreement. Come to class to help your fellow students figure out that thing that just clicked for you yesterday. Or come because you want to discuss AI!

**Disabilities**: Calvin University is committed to providing access to all students. If you are as student with a documented disability, please notify a disability coordinator in the Center for Student Success (located in Spoelhof University Center 360). If you have an accommodation memo, please come talk to me in the first two weeks of class. **If something comes up mid-semester, like an injury, please reach out to the disability coordinator and me.**

**Academic Integrity**: Your work in this class should demonstrate *gratitude* and *respect* to those whose work enables yours. It should demonstrate the *integrity* necessary to produce work that your future employer can legally use. And it should demonstrate an active embrace of the often-necessary struggle of figuring things out yourself. So I expect you to *credit the people who help you*, be they classmates or StackOverflow strangers, and *heed the license terms* under which they offer their code.

**Etiquette**: We expect you to treat students and instructors for this with respect by adopting courteous communication practices throughout the course. No personal attacks, trolling, bad language will be tolerated.

### Diversity and Inclusion

I came to Calvin because I wanted to explore what our Christian calling to “act justly” means in the context of AI, data, and the technologies that we use with it. Engaging that question wholeheartedly requires that each of us, me included, engage respectfully with perspectives very different from our own. For example, we must question those who abuse data for selfish gain, but we also must question the perspectives of those who challenge those abuses on purely secular grounds.

I intend for this class to be an environment where we equally respect people of every ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic background, political learning, religious background, etc. I will try to create that community by having us read diverse voices, engage with issues of importance to people unlike ourselves, and structure discussions that require students to engage respectfully with perspectives different from their own. I invite your help.

We will not always do this well. If you or someone else in this class is hurt by something I say or do in class, I would like to work to remedy it. I will welcome this feedback in whatever way is comfortable for you: in public, in private, via another person (such as our TA or my department chair, Keith VanderLinden), or via a report to [Safer Spaces](https://calvin.edu/offices-services/safer-spaces/) or the [provost's office](http://www.calvin.edu/go/comments-on-faculty/).

## Typical Weekly Schedule

* **Weekend**: read (actively!) a textbook chapter, watch a video lecture
- **Monday**
    - meet in lab for a guided activity.
    - complete a reading quiz by end of day
* **Tuesday**: write your weekly learning reflection, contribute to discussion forums
* **Wednesday**
    - meet in classroom to debrief lab, discuss concepts, discuss AI applications or perspectives
* **Thursday**: take a content quiz (some weeks)
* **Friday**: meet in lab to work on homework / project; some lectures as needed

### Discussion

The class includes weekly class-wide discussion forums (primarily on Moodle, some discussion in person). Most discussions will be case studies on specific technologies. We'll address three basic questions:

1. How does it work?
    - How does it use technologies that we've studied in class?
    - How does it go beyond what we've studied?
2. What impact does it have?
    - What people and relationships are affected by it?
    - What resources does it need? What resources does it produce?
    - What value does it produce for an organization that uses it?
    - Besides its primary use, what are other consequences of its deployment? (Consider both inside and outside an organization.)
3. How can we constructively assess it from a Reformed Christian perspective and other perspectives?
    - What ways of looking at or thinking about people does it emphasize? De-emphasize?
    - What are its main limitations?

### Reflections

A *Reflection* is a summary of your learning the past week (private to you and the course staff) *due Wednesday end of day*. Reflections have 3 parts:

    1. What assignment you're turning in for mastery credit this week.
    2. What assignment you've revised for mastery credit this week: summarize what your specific errors were.
    3. What work, if any, you are turning in late. For each activity, specify how many Effort points it should be awarded according to the late work policy described above.

Details are given in the specific assignments.

Commit message:

Discussion details don't belong in syllabus

content/syllabus/index.md, after:

---
title: "Syllabus"
---

This is a hands-on course on AI systems using machine learning, with a particular emphasis on deep neural networks.

-   **Instructor**: Kenneth C. Arnold, Calvin University, North Hall NH298

-   **Meeting Time**: MWF 11:30-12:20, SB 354 (Gold Lab)

-   **Office/Teams Hours**: Generally Monday and Thursday afternoons; see my [Google Calendar](https://kenarnold.org/calendar.html) for details and exceptions. Or message me directly; time permitting, I'd love to chat.

## Objective

By the end of this course, you will demonstrate growth in your ability to:

- Design a machine learning system to address a given challenge.
    - Select an appropriate ML approach to solve a problem.
    - Map characteristics of the problem onto elements of the approach.
    - Identify necessary characteristics of the data required for an ML system.
- Implement machine learning systems using both high-level and low-level programming interfaces.
	- Write code to implement the forward pass of linear regression, logistic regression, and neural net extensions thereof. (compute predictions and loss)
	- Design and implement data preprocessing processes to encode data into a format appropriate for machine learning modeling.
- Critically analyze the use and misuse of AI and ML techniques in situations affecting people
- Describe the history and trajectory of artificial intelligence

## Prerequisites

Familiarity with computer science concepts at the level of CS 212 will be generally expected. Beyond that, students should come to this course with some (perhaps rusty) ability to:

-   Read and write Python code (or be willing to invest significant energy the first few weeks picking it up)
-   Think systematically, generate and test hypotheses to explain observations, and communicate that thinking precisely.
-   Manage time, individually and in small groups
-   Collaborate to solve problems

## Materials

- Moodle contains links to all of the resources used in this course. It will also be where you engage in [discussion forums](/discussionss) and submit assignments.
-   We will be following the fast.ai [Practical Deep Learning for Coders](https://course.fast.ai/) course for much of this course.

    -   You should buy their book (available in the Calvin bookstore), although it's also available as Jupyter Notebooks
    -   [Videos](https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=1)
    -   their [forum](https://forums.fast.ai/c/part1-v4/46)

-   We will be using Piazza for Q&A. Many students have found that Piazza works well for getting you help fast and efficiently from classmates and myself. Rather than emailing questions to the teaching staff, I encourage you to post your questions on Piazza. Access Piazza by clicking on the link in Moodle.

-   The lab machines are configured with the software needed in Linux. The Gold lab GPUs are slightly better, so we'll generally use them but Maroon should usually work too. For times when you need or want additional computing resources, you may use [Borg](https://borg.calvin.edu/), [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/), [Paperspace](https://gradient.paperspace.com/), or other services. **The Guacamole remote access machines have older GPUs**, so see notes in the Lab 1 and 2 instructions for tips on making things run there (or just use Google Colab).

## Policies

**Grading**: The final course grade will be composed of 2 elements:

- Effort: did you do it, on time?
- Mastery: did you get it?

**Effort** points are awarded for satisfactory effort by the due date and are intended to keep you from getting behind in the course. The following types of activities count as effort points:

- **Labs**, **Homework**, and weekly **reflections** will be considered satisfactory if an attempt has been made to answer all questions by the due date. Each activity will be allocated 5 effort points. On-time submissions receive all 5 points; late turn-ins are penalized by 1 point each business day (i.e., excluding weekends).
- **Discussion Forums** (see [details](/discussions/)) will be awarded 2 effort points if an original post with intellectual substance is made by the due date. Many discussion assignments will also include one or two replies to other students, which will count for 1 effort point each. Late posts may receive half credit.
- All **Quizzes** (both preparation and review) count as 5 effort points. The actual score will be used: unlimited attempts will be allowed, so perfect scores are expected. Moodle makes it tedious to manage late quizzes, so each quiz will officially close a week late and no late quizzes will be accepted.

**Late work**: Everyone will receive 5 free effort points, i.e., you get five grace days. Please reserve these for cases of personal hardship. Exemptions per assignment will be granted in very limited circumstances. 

The *mastery* component of grading (inspired by a system used at [Grinnell College](https://osera.cs.grinnell.edu/csc151/syllabus/)) will be composed of two grades for each unit: an individual grade and a group grade. A mastery grade is awarded for a unit when a student provides evidence to demonstrate mastery of one or more of the learning outcomes for that unit.
You present this evidence to the course staff by referring to a specific assignment in your weekly reflection (described later).

> Alternatively, you may meet with the course staff (during office hours or during a lull in lab time) to earn a mastery grade. However, times to do this will be limited, so be prepared to provide written evidence.

Mastery will be graded on a four-point scale (adapted from the [EMRF rubric](http://miss-serwy.weebly.com/uploads/1/2/1/6/12161802/emrf_rubric_1.pdf) by Stutzman and Race):

- **E**: Excellent
    - Demonstrates complete understanding of the material
    - No errors; could serve as an example solution
- **M**: Meets expectations
    - Demonstrates complete understanding of the material
    - Minor errors
- **R**: Needs Revision
    - Demonstrates limited understanding of the material
    - Many minor errors or one or more major errors
- **N**: Not completed
    - Not completed to a degree where understanding is evident


**If I get an R, can I revise?**

Yes, this is expected and highly encouraged. You can submit revisions in the same way that you submit new items. When submitting a revision:

- Include in your weekly reflection a concise and specific explanation of the original error(s).
- Submit a complete, standalone solution. Do not include evidence of your past errors.

**When can I earn mastery grades?**

You may earn up to 2 mastery grades during each week of class (ending Mondays unless otherwise indicated), and up to one mastery grade for each unit in the midterm and final projects. Generally you will attempt one new mastery grade and one revised assignment from a previous week during each week.

**This sounds unusual. Will we actually be doing this??**

This grading policy is experimental and depends on student buy-in and participation. I reserve the right to change the grading policy at any point.

**Can we work in pairs?**

Lab, homework, and project activities should generally be done in pairs, though solo work is also fine. Teams of 3 can be okay too.

However, group work can only get you one of the two mastery grades for a unit.

Some weeks there will be review assignments available, which will provide you the opportunity to demonstrate individual mastery. (As a corollary, these assignments *must* be done individually, without consulting other students or aids.)

**Incompletes**: An incomplete grade (I) will only be given in unusual circumstances, and only if those circumstances have been confirmed by the Student Life office.

**Attendance** is not mandatory, but highly encouraged, both for your own learning and as one of the main ways to contribute to other students' learning. Come to class to ask the questions that you think everyone else already knows the answer to but in fact they nod in agreement. Come to class to help your fellow students figure out that thing that just clicked for you yesterday. Or come because you want to discuss AI!

**Disabilities**: Calvin University is committed to providing access to all students. If you are as student with a documented disability, please notify a disability coordinator in the Center for Student Success (located in Spoelhof University Center 360). If you have an accommodation memo, please come talk to me in the first two weeks of class. **If something comes up mid-semester, like an injury, please reach out to the disability coordinator and me.**

**Academic Integrity**: Your work in this class should demonstrate *gratitude* and *respect* to those whose work enables yours. It should demonstrate the *integrity* necessary to produce work that your future employer can legally use. And it should demonstrate an active embrace of the often-necessary struggle of figuring things out yourself. So I expect you to *credit the people who help you*, be they classmates or StackOverflow strangers, and *heed the license terms* under which they offer their code.

**Etiquette**: We expect you to treat students and instructors for this with respect by adopting courteous communication practices throughout the course. No personal attacks, trolling, bad language will be tolerated.

### Diversity and Inclusion

I came to Calvin because I wanted to explore what our Christian calling to “act justly” means in the context of AI, data, and the technologies that we use with it. Engaging that question wholeheartedly requires that each of us, me included, engage respectfully with perspectives very different from our own. For example, we must question those who abuse data for selfish gain, but we also must question the perspectives of those who challenge those abuses on purely secular grounds.

I intend for this class to be an environment where we equally respect people of every ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic background, political learning, religious background, etc. I will try to create that community by having us read diverse voices, engage with issues of importance to people unlike ourselves, and structure discussions that require students to engage respectfully with perspectives different from their own. I invite your help.

We will not always do this well. If you or someone else in this class is hurt by something I say or do in class, I would like to work to remedy it. I will welcome this feedback in whatever way is comfortable for you: in public, in private, via another person (such as our TA or my department chair, Keith VanderLinden), or via a report to [Safer Spaces](https://calvin.edu/offices-services/safer-spaces/) or the [provost's office](http://www.calvin.edu/go/comments-on-faculty/).

## Typical Weekly Schedule

- **Weekend**: read (actively!) a textbook chapter, watch a video lecture
- **Monday**
    - meet in lab for a guided activity.
    - complete a reading quiz by end of day
- **Tuesday**: write your weekly learning reflection, contribute to discussion forums
- **Wednesday**: debrief lab, discuss concepts, discuss AI applications or perspectives
- **Thursday**: take a content quiz (some weeks)
- **Friday**: meet in lab to work on homework / project; some lectures as needed

### Reflections

A *Reflection* is a summary of your learning the past week (private to you and the course staff) *due Wednesday end of day*. Reflections have 3 parts:

    1. What assignment you're turning in for mastery credit this week.
    2. What assignment you've revised for mastery credit this week: summarize what your specific errors were.
    3. What work, if any, you are turning in late. For each activity, specify how many Effort points it should be awarded according to the late work policy described above.

Details are given in the specific assignments.
