content/units/08nlp-intro/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Unit 8: NLP Intro"
weight: 8
---

Some of the most impactful developments in AI recently have come from modeling and generating *sequences*.
In this lesson we'll start learning about how we can extend the sort of modeling we've been doing to them.

Students who complete this unit will demonstrate that they can:

- Identify at least two different language understanding tasks that can be addressed using machine learning methods and describe the inputs and targets of each. <!-- Causal language modeling, Sequence translation, Sequence classification, Token classification, Information extraction -->
- Explain at least two different approaches for converting text data into a form usable by a machine learning model.
- Identify both word and character n-grams in a given string.
- Implement basic data manipulation operations in language processing

## Preparation

We now switch to the [Natural Language Processing with Transformers Book](https://transformersbook.com/) (**NLPT**), which is available in the bookstore or for [online purchase](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/natural-language-processing/9781098136789/). Like before, you are expected to read the book, try exercises on your own, and come to class prepared with questions. Some of the same material is also available as part of the [Hugging Face NLP Course](https://huggingface.co/course/), sometimes with videos; I encourage you to at least skim that material as well.

Reading for this unit:

- NLPT: Foreword, Preface, and Chapter 1. Do the end-of-chapter quiz.
- [Hugging Face NLP Course](https://huggingface.co/course/) Chapter 1. Complete the end-of-chapter quiz, not for credit.
- Optional but recommended:
  - Watch Jay Alammar's "gentle visual intro to Transformers models" from the [Part 2 Release Event](https://huggingface.co/course/event/1?fw=pt), and one more of your choice.

### Supplemental Material

<!--

- Watch [Lecture 2 of MIT 6.S191](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qjrad0V0uJE&list=PLtBw6njQRU-rwp5__7C0oIVt26ZgjG9NI&index=2)
  - You may want to go back to skim [Lecture 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tvmMX8r_OM&list=PLtBw6njQRU-rwp5__7C0oIVt26ZgjG9NI&index=1) if you didn't do so back in Week 4.
- Textbook: [SLP3](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/) (architectures, tasks, RNN etc.)
- Videos: [Stanford course on Natural Language Understanding 21SP](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLoROMvodv4rPt5D0zs3YhbWSZA8Q_DyiJ)

-->

- [Jay Alammar](https://jalammar.github.io/) ([YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmOwsoHty5PrmE-3QhUBfPQ)) has made some nice visual explanations of language models.

## Class Meetings

### Monday

Lecture: NLP Intro and Predictive Text ([slides](/slides/2022-03-07%20NLP%20intro%20and%20Predictive%20Text.pdf))

### Wednesday

- Discussion summary (come prepared to contribute)
- [Slides](/slides/w8/w8-nlp-tasks.html)
  - Language understanding *tasks*
  - Tokenization

### Friday

- Discussion intro
- Word embeddings (see [slides from last week](/slides/w7/w7-recsys-embedding.html#26))
- Tokenization practice

Commit message:

Add an alternative prep exercise

content/units/08nlp-intro/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Unit 8: NLP Intro"
weight: 8
---

Some of the most impactful developments in AI recently have come from modeling and generating *sequences*.
In this lesson we'll start learning about how we can extend the sort of modeling we've been doing to them.

Students who complete this unit will demonstrate that they can:

- Identify at least two different language understanding tasks that can be addressed using machine learning methods and describe the inputs and targets of each. <!-- Causal language modeling, Sequence translation, Sequence classification, Token classification, Information extraction -->
- Explain at least two different approaches for converting text data into a form usable by a machine learning model.
- Identify both word and character n-grams in a given string.
- Implement basic data manipulation operations in language processing

## Preparation

We now switch to the [Natural Language Processing with Transformers Book](https://transformersbook.com/) (**NLPT**), which is available in the bookstore or for [online purchase](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/natural-language-processing/9781098136789/). Like before, you are expected to read the book, try exercises on your own, and come to class prepared with questions. Some of the same material is also available as part of the [Hugging Face NLP Course](https://huggingface.co/course/), sometimes with videos; I encourage you to at least skim that material as well.

Reading for this unit:

- NLPT: Foreword, Preface, and Chapter 1. Do the end-of-chapter quiz.
- [Hugging Face NLP Course](https://huggingface.co/course/) Chapter 1. Complete the end-of-chapter quiz, not for credit.
- Optional but recommended:
  - Watch Jay Alammar's "gentle visual intro to Transformers models" from the [Part 2 Release Event](https://huggingface.co/course/event/1?fw=pt), and one more of your choice.

**Alternative** ("Zero to Hero"): [Let's build GPT: from scratch, in code, spelled out. - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kCc8FmEb1nY)

### Supplemental Material

<!--

- Watch [Lecture 2 of MIT 6.S191](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qjrad0V0uJE&list=PLtBw6njQRU-rwp5__7C0oIVt26ZgjG9NI&index=2)
  - You may want to go back to skim [Lecture 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tvmMX8r_OM&list=PLtBw6njQRU-rwp5__7C0oIVt26ZgjG9NI&index=1) if you didn't do so back in Week 4.
- Textbook: [SLP3](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/) (architectures, tasks, RNN etc.)
- Videos: [Stanford course on Natural Language Understanding 21SP](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLoROMvodv4rPt5D0zs3YhbWSZA8Q_DyiJ)

-->

- [Jay Alammar](https://jalammar.github.io/) ([YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmOwsoHty5PrmE-3QhUBfPQ)) has made some nice visual explanations of language models.

## Class Meetings

### Monday

Lecture: NLP Intro and Predictive Text ([slides](/slides/2022-03-07%20NLP%20intro%20and%20Predictive%20Text.pdf))

### Wednesday

- Discussion summary (come prepared to contribute)
- [Slides](/slides/w8/w8-nlp-tasks.html)
  - Language understanding *tasks*
  - Tokenization

### Friday

- Discussion intro
- Word embeddings (see [slides from last week](/slides/w7/w7-recsys-embedding.html#26))
- Tokenization practice
